'\" t
.ig
Man page for lp5250d.

Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Carey Evans.

You can redistribute and/or modify this document under the terms of 
the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This document is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
..
.TH LP5250D 1 "28 May 2000"
.SH NAME
lp5250d \- start an AS/400 printer session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lp5250d
.RB [\| \-t
.IR tracefile \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR "translation map" \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR "session name" \|]
.RB [\| \-T
.IR "transform name" \|]
.RB [\| \-P
.IR "output command" \|]
.RI host [\| :port \|]
.PP
.B lp5250d \-V
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B lp5250d
connects to an AS/400 over TCP/IP and provides a printer session
emulating an IBM 3812 printer.  The printer session works with
.B scs2ascii
and host print transform on the AS/400 to print AS/400 spooled files
on a local printer.
.PP
To end a printer session, send it a
.I SIGTERM
signal with
.BR kill (1).
.PP
Printing support requires named session support, which is available
for most recent versions of OS/400, but is only supplied with V4R3 and
later versions.  For V3R2, V3R7, V4R1 and V4R2, please see informational APAR
II10918.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-t\  tracefile
Log all
.B lp5250d
actions to
.IR tracefile .
This file will get very large.
.TP
.BI \-m\  "translation map"
Set the translation table between ASCII and EBCDIC.  This should match
the normal CCSID of the AS/400; for machines sold in the United
States, Canada, the Netherlands, Portugal, Brazil, New Zealand and
Australia this will be 37.  For the United Kingdom it will probably be
285.  The default for
.B tn5250
is
.BR 37 .
.sp
See
.B Translation Maps
in
.BR tn5250 (1)
for a list of supported values.
.TP
.BI \-s\  "session name"
Set the device name for the AS/400 to assign to the 5250 session.
This should be up to ten characters long and consist of only letters
and numbers.  It will be converted to uppercase and used as the name
of the 5250-compatible device on the AS/400.  There may only be one
session active with any given name at one time.
.TP
.BI \-P\  "output command"
Set the command that will be receive printer output.  The default
command is
.RB ` "scs2ascii |lpr" '.
.TP
.BI \-T\  "transform name"
Set the name of the host print transform description to use on the
AS/400.  This is the same as the MFRTYPMDL parameter on the CRTDEVPRT
command.  See the CL Reference or the online help for a list of valid
values.
.TP
.B \-V
Display the version of
.B lp5250d
and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.I "lp5250d -s LINPRT1 -T '*HP4' as400sys"
Connect to
.I as400sys
as the printer
.IR LINPRT1 ,
using host print transform on the AS/400 to print to an HP Laserjet or
compatible using lpr.
.TP
.I "lp5250d -s LINPRT1 -T '*OKI184IBM' -P 'scs2ascii | lpr -Poki' as400sys"
Print to an Okidata Microline 184 Turbo on the local print queue named
.RB ` oki '.
.TP
.I "lp5250d -s PDFPRT -P 'scs2pdf > scs$$.pdf' as400sys"
Convert spooled files info PDF files.
.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs you find to the tn5250 mailing list at
.RI < linux5250@midrange.com >.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tn5250 (1),
.BR scs2ascii (1),
.BR scs2pdf (1),
.BR RFC1205 ,
.BR II10918 ,
.BR http://www.blarg.net/~mmadore/5250.html .
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B tn5250
is copyright
.if t \(co
1997 - 2000 Michael Madore.  This manpage is copyright
.if t \(co
1999, 2000 Carey Evans.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.SH AUTHORS
.B tn5250
was written by Michael Madore
.RI < mmadore@blarg.net >,
Jay Felice
.RI < jasonf@nacs.net >
and others; see the AUTHORS file for details.
This manual page was written by Carey Evans
.RI < c.evans@clear.net.nz >.
