'\" t
.ig
Man page for scs2ascii.

Copyright (C) 1999 - 2008 Carey Evans.

You can redistribute and/or modify this document under the terms of 
the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This document is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
..
.TH SCS2ASCII 1 "17 Jun 2001"
.SH NAME
scs2ascii \- convert IBM SCS printer data into ASCII
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scs2ascii
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program handles the conversion from an SCS print stream from an
AS/400 printer emulation to something suitable for sending to lpr.
It is only intended for use with
.BR lp5250d .
.PP
When using host print transform with
.BR lp5250d ,
.B scs2ascii
will remove the remaining characters from the SCS print stream to
leave only the data intended for the printer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lp5250d (1),
.B http://tn5250.sourceforge.net/
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B scs2ascii
is copyright
.if t \(co
1997 \- 1999 Michael Madore.  This manpage is copyright
.if t \(co
1999 \- 2008 Carey Evans.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.SH AUTHORS
.B scs2ascii
was written by Michael Madore.
This manual page was written by Carey Evans.
