.ig
Man page for scs2ps.

Copyright (C) 1999 - 2008 Carey Evans.

You can redistribute and/or modify this document under the terms of 
the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This document is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
..
.TH SCS2PS 1 "30 Aug 2001"
.SH NAME
scs2ps \- convert IBM SCS printer data into PostScript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scs2ps
.SH DESCRIPTION
The program converts from an SCS print stream on the standard input,
to a PostScript\*R file on the standard output. It is only intended
for use with
.BR lp5250d .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lp5250d (1),
.B http://tn5250.sourceforge.net/
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B scs2ps
is copyright
.if t \(co
1997 \- 2008 Michael Madore.  This manpage is copyright
.if t \(co
2001 \- 2008 Carey Evans.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.SH TRADEMARKS
PostScript is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.SH AUTHORS
.B scs2ps
was written by Rich Duzenbury, based on
.B scs2ascii
written by Michael Madore.
This manual page was written by Carey Evans.
