'\" t
.ig
Man page for tn5250rc.

Copyright (C) 2001-2008 Carey Evans.

You can redistribute and/or modify this document under the terms of 
the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This document is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
..
.TH TN5250RC 5 "12 November 2001"
.SH NAME
tn5250rc \- tn5250 and lp5250d configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B tn5250rc
file contains groups of options for
.B tn5250
and
.BR lp5250d .
When a hostname is passed to one of these programs, the named group is
looked up in
.BR tn5250rc ,
and any options given in that group are processed.
.PP
If a named group is found, and defines a
.B host
option, that option specifies the server. Otherwise, the host
parameter to the program is used.
.PP
A group of options looks like this:
.PP
    \fIgroupname\fR {
        +\fIboolean\fR
        \fIoption\fR=\fIvalue\fR
        \fI...\fR
    }
.PP
Each group of options starts with the group name, followed by a left
brace (curly bracket) character. Following lines should have one
option on each line. The last line of the group has a single right
brace.
.PP
The global
.B tn5250rc
file may be overridden by the user's
.B ~/.tn5250rc
file.
.SH OPTIONS
The options given here may be used inside a section of the
configuration file, or on the
.B tn5250
or
.B lp5250d
command line.  Most options take the form
.IR OPTION = VALUE .
Options listed with a leading
.BR + / \-
can be either turned on
.RI ( +OPTION )
or off
.RI ( \-OPTION ).
.SS Common Options
These options apply to both printer and display emulation sessions.
.TP
.BI host= URL
Set the host to connect to.  The
.I URL
is of the form
.RI [\| PROTOCOL :\|]\| HOSTNAME \|[\|: PORT \|].
The default protocol, if not supplied, is
.BR tn5250 .
See
.B Protocols
below for descriptions of the available protocols.
.TP
.BI map= CCSID
Set the translation table between ASCII and EBCDIC.  This should match
the CCSID of the interactive job.  The default is
.BR 37 .
See
.B "Translation Maps"
below for more information.
.TP
.BI env.DEVNAME= NAME
Set the device name for the AS/400 to assign to the 5250 session.
This should be up to ten characters long and consist of only letters
and numbers.  It will be converted to uppercase and used as the name
of the 5250-compatible device on the AS/400.  There may only be one
session active with any given name at one time.
.TP
.BI trace= TRACEFILE
Log all actions to
.IR TRACEFILE .
This file will get very large, and may contain sensitive information
such as the password used to log in.
.TP
.BR + / \-ssl_verify_server
If set, then verify that the server's certificate was issued by a CA
in the file given by the
.B ssl_ca_file
option. If the certificate's issuer cannot be verified, do not connect
to the server.
.TP
.BI ssl_ca_file= CAFILE
Specify the file containing the certificate for the CA that issued the
server's certificate. If the server certificate is self-signed,
.I CAFILE
should contain the certificate displayed by the
.B "Digital Certificate Manager"
option
.IR "Copy and paste certificate" .
.TP
.BI ssl_cert_file= CERTFILE
Specify the file containing the personal certificate, in PEM
format. This must be a certificate associated with your user profile
on the AS/400 by
.BR DCM .
.TP
.BI ssl_pem_pass= PASSWORD
If the personal certificate given by
.B ssl_cert_file
is password protected, the password may be given here to bypass the
password prompt.
.SS Display Options
These options are specific to
.B tn5250
and
.BR xt5250 .
.TP
.BR + / \-underscores
Force or disable the use of underscore characters instead of the underline
attribute, for terminals that do not support underlining but where
.B tn5250
does not work this out itself.
.TP
.BR + / \-ruler
Turn the ruler feature on or off.  When enabled, the row and column of
the cursor will be highlighted.
.TP
.BI env.TERM= MODEL
Set the terminal model name for the emulation session to use.  The
default depends on whether the terminal supports colour, and whether
it is large enough to support the large terminal size.  See
.B "Display Types"
below for valid model names.
.IP
The default model emulated is an
.BR IBM-3179-2 ,
a 24x80 colour terminal.
.TP
.BI font_80= FONT
If
.B tn5250
is running in an xterm, sets the font to change to when the terminal
is in 80 column mode.  This should be a valid X font name, such as can
be chosen with
.BR xfontsel .
.TP
.BI font_132= FONT
If the emulated terminal has a size of 27x132, set the font to use in
132 column mode, as for the
.B font_80
option.
.TP
.BI beep_command= COMMAND
If present, will run the supplied command instead of using the terminal beep.
.TP
.BR + / \-uninhibited
If enabled, automatically resets the input inhibited state when cursor
movement keys or function keys are pressed.  The default is disabled.
.TP
.BI env. VARIABLE = VALUE
Set any other environment variables controlling the terminal session.
A list of relevant variables is given in section 5 of
.BR RFC2877 .
.SS "Printer Options"
.TP
.BI outputcommand= COMMAND
Set the command that will be run to receive printer output.  The
default command is
.RB ` "scs2ascii |lpr" '.
.TP
.BI env.IBMMFRTYPMDL= NAME
Set the name of the host print transform description to use on the
AS/400.  This is the same as the MFRTYPMDL parameter on the CRTDEVPRT
command.  See the CL Reference or the online help for a list of valid
values.
.TP
.BI env. VARIABLE = VALUE
Set any other environment variables controlling the printer session.
A list of relevant variables is given in section 7 of
.BR RFC2877 .
More generally, the variables are the parameters of the
.B CRTDEVPRT
command, with a prefix of
.BR IBM .
.SH "OPTION VALUES"
.SS "Protocols"
The supported protocols for the emulation session are listed below.
.TP
.B telnet
Connect to the AS/400 using a normal unencrypted telnet connection.
.B tn5250
is an alias for
.BR telnet .
.TP
.B ssl
Connect securely using an encrypted SSL session. This option is only
available if
.B tn5250
was compiled with SSL support.
.TP
.B debug
Instead of connecting to a server, replay the trace generated by the
.B trace
option.  The path to the trace file should be given instead of the
hostname.
.SS "Translation Maps"
CCSIDs on the AS/400 are listed in Appendix G of IBM manual
SC41-5101-01, AS/400 National Language Support.  This manual is
available on the web at
.RI < http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/cgi\-bin/bookmgr/BOOKS/QB3AWC01/G.2 >.
.PP
Currently recognised values for the translation map are: 37, 256, 273,
277, 278, 280, 284, 285, 290, 297, 420, 424, 500, 870, 871, 875, 880, 905,
and 1026.  Most of these are translated to ISO-8859-1, also known as
Latin 1.  Some of them contain characters only present in another
encoding, which is used instead.  The valid CCSID values, and the Unix
encoding used, are listed below.
.PP
.TS
tab (:);
l l l
___
rB l l.
CCSID:Unix encoding:Description
37:ISO-8859-1:US, Canada, Netherlands,
::Portugal, Brazil, Australia,
::New Zealand
256:ISO-8859-1:Netherlands
273:ISO-8859-1:Austria, Germany
277:ISO-8859-1:Denmark, Norway
278:ISO-8859-1:Finland, Sweden
280:ISO-8859-1:Italy
284:ISO-8859-1:Spanish, Latin America
285:ISO-8859-1:United Kingdom
290:JIS_X0201:Katakana Extended
297:ISO-8859-1:France
420:ISO-8859-6:Arabic
424:ISO-8859-8:Hebrew
500:ISO-8859-1:Belgium, Canada, Switzerland
870:ISO-8859-2:Eastern Europe
871:ISO-8859-1:Iceland
875:ISO-8859-7:Greek
880:ISO-8859-5:Cyrillic
905:ISO-8859-3:Turkey \- Latin3
1026:ISO-8859-9:Turkey \- Latin5
.TE
.PP
If possible, configure your terminal to use the appropriate encoding
if your AS/400 uses any of these CCSIDs.
.SS "Display Types"
The following values are valid for the
.B env.TERM
option.
.PP
.TS
tab (@);
l l l
___
lB l lB.
Name@Description
IBM-3179-2@24x80 color
IBM-3180-2@27x132 monochrome
IBM-3196-A1@24x80 monochrome
IBM-3477-FC@27x132 color
IBM-3477-FG@27x132 monochrome
IBM-5251-11@24x80 monochrome
IBM-5291-1@24x80 monochrome
IBM-5292-2@24x80 color
.TE
.ig
IBM-5555-C01@DBCS color
IBM-5555-B01@DBCS monochrome
..
.SH EXAMPLES
Define a connection named
.B dsp01
that connects to the machine
.BR iseries.example.com ,
using the German CCSID, a 132 column terminal, and printing underscore
characters instead of using underlines.
.PP
    disp01 {
        host = iseries.example.com
        map = 273
        env.TERM = IBM-3477-FC
        +underscores
    }
.PP
Define a printer connection, using host print transform to produce PCL
output for an HP Laserjet compatible printer.
.PP
    print01 {
        host = iseries.example.com
        env.DEVNAME = HPLJ01
        env.IBMMFRTYPMDL = *HP4
    }
.PP
Define a secure SSL session, checking the server's certificate against
the CA certificare stored in
.BR cacert.pem ,
and using the client certificate in
.B jbloggs.pem
to sign on automatically.
.PP
    secure01 {
        host = iseries.example.com
        +ssl_verify_server
        ssl_ca_file = cacert.pem
        ssl_cert_file = jbloggs.pem
    }
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tn5250 (1),
.BR lp5250d (1),
.BR http://tn5250.sourceforge.net/ ,
.BR RFC1205 ,
.BR RFC2877 ,
.BR II10918 .
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B tn5250
is copyright
.if t \(co
1997 \- 2008 Michael Madore.  This manpage is copyright
.if t \(co
2001 \- 2008 Carey Evans.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.SH AUTHORS
.B tn5250
was written by Michael Madore, Jay Felice, Scott Klement
and others; see the AUTHORS file for details.
This manual page was written by Carey Evans.
.ig
Local variables:
mode: nroff
End:
..
