'\" t
.ig
Man page for tn5250.

Copyright (C) 1999 Carey Evans.

You can redistribute and/or modify this document under the terms of 
the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This document is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
..
.TH TN5250 1 "18 Sep 1999"
.SH NAME
tn5250 \- an implementation of the 5250 telnet protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tn5250
.RB [\| \-t
.IR tracefile \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR "translation map" \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR "session name" \|]
.RB [\| \-y
.IR "terminal name" \|]
.RB [\| \-u \|]
.RI [\| protocol: \|] host [\| :port \|]
.PP
.B tn5250
.B \-p
.RB [\| \-t 
.IR tracefile \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR "session name" \|]
.RB [\| \-P
.IR "output command" \|]
.RB [\| \-T
.IR "transform name" \|]
.RI [\| protocol: \|] host [\| :port \|]
.PP
.B tn5250 \-V
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B tn5250
emulates IBM's 5250 compatible terminals, or 3812 printer, to connect
over TCP/IP to an IBM AS/400.  The terminal emulation works on any
local terminal supported by curses, and provides 132x27 and full
colour support where possible.  The printer emulation either works
with host print transform, or in conjunction with the
.B scs2ascii
program, to print AS/400 spooled files on a local printer.
.PP
.B tn5250
will connect to the given
.IR host 's
telnet port, or a different
.I port
if specified.  The
.I protocol
specifies either to use telnet to the host, if omitted or set to
.I telnet
or
.IR tn5250 ,
or to replay a session dumped using
.B \-t
if set to
.IR debug .
.PP
An IBM 5250 terminal supports a number of special keys, and does a lot 
of processing itself before sending data to the host system.  Because
a standard ASCII terminal does not support all these keys,
.B tn5250
uses control sequences to perform the operations.
.PP
Printing support
.RB ( \-p )
and named sessions
.RB ( \-s )
are available for most versions of OS/400, but is only supplied with
V4R3 and V4R4.  For V3R2, V3R7, V4R1 and V4R2, please see
informational APAR II10918.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p
Begin a printer session instead of a terminal emulator.
.TP
.BI \-t\  tracefile
Log all
.B tn5250
actions to
.IR tracefile .
This file will get very large, and may contain sensitive information
such as the password used to log in.
.TP
.BI \-m\  "translation map"
Set the translation table between ASCII and EBCDIC.  This should match
the CCSID of the interactive job; for machines sold in the United
States, Canada, the Netherlands, Portugal, Brazil, New Zealand and
Australia this will be 37.  For the United Kingdom it will probably be
285.  The default for
.B tn5250
is
.BR 37 .
.sp
Currently recognised values for the translation map are: 37, 38, 274,
275, 277, 278, 280, 281, 284, 285, 290, 297, 420, 423, 424, 500, 870,
871, 880, 905, 918, atde, atdea, be, br, cafr, ccc, cpar1, cpar2,
cpbe, cpca, cpch, cpes, cpfi, cpfr, cpgb, cpgr, cphe, cpis, cpit,
cpnl, cpno, cproece, cptr, cpus, cpwt, cpyu, cyrillic, dkno, dknoa,
en, es, esa, ess, fisea, fr, ibm, int, it, jpe, jpkana, pt, uk, us.
.sp
CCSIDs on the AS/400 are listed in Appendix G of IBM manual
SC41-5101-01, AS/400 National Language Support V4R2.  This manual is
available on the web at
.RI < http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/cgi-bin/bookmgr/BOOKS/QB3AWC01/G.2 >.
.TP
.BI \-s\  "session name"
Set the device name for the AS/400 to assign to the 5250 session.
This should be up to ten characters long and consist of only letters
and numbers.  It will be converted to uppercase and used as the name
of the 5250-compatible device on the AS/400.  There may only be one
session active with any given name at one time.
.TP
.BI \-y\  "terminal name"
Set the terminal model name for the emulation session to use.  The
default depends on whether the terminal supports colour, and whether
it is large enough to support the large terminal size.  See
.B Display Types
below for valid model names.
.TP
.B \-u
Use underline characters instead of the underline attribute, for
terminals such as the Linux console that do not support the latter.
.TP
.BI \-P\  "output command"
Set the command that will be receive printer output.  The default
command is
.BR "scs2ascii |lpr" .
.TP
.BI \-T\  "transform name"
Set the name of the print transform to use on the AS/400.  This is the 
same as the MFRTYPMDL parameter on the CRTDEVPRT command.  See the
.B Printing
section below for more information.
.TP
.B \-V
Display the version of
.B tn5250
and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
These are some examples of the use of
.BR tn5250 :
.TP
.I "tn5250 as400sys"
Connect to the system
.IR as400sys ,
using the default translation map (en)
and a generated session name
.RI (QPADEV #### ).
.TP
.I "tn5250 -m 37 -s session1 -u as400sys"
Connect to
.I as400sys
using the translation map for CCSID 37, the session name SESSION1
and with underlined spaces represented using underscore characters.
.SH USAGE
This manual assumes that the user is familiar with a real 5250
terminal, or another 5250 emulator, and only describes features
relevant to
.B tn5250
itself.
.SS "Keyboard Mapping"
The following table lists the 5250 functions implemented by
.BR tn5250 ,
and the corresponding keypresses.  Keys are represented as Emacs does:
.B C-a
means hold
.B Ctrl
and press
.BR A ,
.B M-a
means press
.B Esc
or
.B C-g
followed by
.BR A ,
and
.B C-M-a
means press
.B Esc
or
.B C-g
followed by
.BR C-a .
.PP
.TS
tab (@);
l l
__
lB l.
Function@Keypress
F1 - F10@f1 to f10, M-1 to M-
F11@f11 [1], M--
F12@f12 [1], M-=
F13 - F24@f13 to f24 [1], M-! to M-+
Enter@return, enter, C-j, C-m
Left@left
Right@right
Up@up
Down@down
Roll Up@next, pagedown, C-d, C-f
Roll Down@prev, pageup, C-b, C-u
Backspace@backspace [1]
Home@home, C-o
End@end
Insert@insert, M-i, M-delete
Delete@delete [1]
Reset@C-r, M-r
Print@C-p, M-p
Help@M-h
SysReq@C-c, M-s
Clear@M-c
FieldExit@C-k, C-x, M-x
TestReq@C-t
Toggle@M-t
Erase@C-e
Attn@C-a, M-a
Dup@M-d
Field+@+ [2], same as FieldExit
Field-@M-m, - [2]
NewLine@C-M-j
Next Field@tab, C-i
Prev Field@backtab [1]
_
Refresh@C-l, M-l
Quit@C-q
.TE
.IP [1]
Which keys generate f11-f24, backtab, backspace and delete is very
dependent on the configuration of the terminal.
.IP [2]
.B +
and
.B -
only work as Field+ and Field- in signed numeric fields.
.LP
.SS Display
The screen display tries to be the same as a colour 5250 terminal.
There are some unavoidable differences though:
.RS
.PP
ASCII terminals (and curses) do not support the 5250 column
separators.
.PP
Some terminals (mostly ones based on the VGA text mode) do not support 
underlining.  In this case, you should pass the
.B \-u
option to
.BR tn5250 .
Note that we cannot determine this automatically, since the Linux
console, for example, supports an underline escape sequence but does
not display the underlines when using VGA text mode.
.PP
Some terminals (such as
.BR xterm )
do not support blinking text.
.RE
.SS "Display Types"
The following values are valid for the terminal name option.
The default terminal, if none is specified, is selected from the first
listed below that supports both terminal size and colour support.
.PP
.TS
tab (@);
l l l
___
lB l lB.
Name@Description@Default
IBM-5555-C01@DBCS color (not supported)
IBM-5555-B01@DBCS monochrome (not supported)
IBM-3477-FC@27x132 color@Yes
IBM-3477-FG@27x132 monochrome@Yes
IBM-3180-2@27x132 monochrome
IBM-3179-2@24x80 color@Yes
IBM-3196-A1@24x80 monochrome
IBM-5292-2@24x80 color
IBM-5291-1@24x80 monochrome
IBM-5251-11@24x80 monochrome@Yes
.TE
.PP
.SS Printing
.B tn5250
supports two options for printing.  If the
.B \-T
option is not given, then the AS/400 will generate an SCS data
stream.  This can be output to
.BR scs2ascii ,
which will transform the stream into ASCII output which can then be
piped to
.BR lpr .
This is the default behaviour.
.PP
If a printer model is specified, then the AS/400 will perform host
print transform itself, and produce output suitable for sending to the
same model of printer.  More information about valid values for this
parameter is in the
.I OS/400 CL Reference
for
.BR CRTDEVPRT ,
and in the online help for that command, for the
.B MFRTYPMDL
parameter.  A common value would be
.B *HP4
for HP LaserJet 4 compatible printers.
.PP
To end a printer session, use Control-C.
.SH BUGS
.B tn5250
is still extremely BETA, but the program is very
usable.  Please report any bugs to the mailing list at
.RI < linux5250@sungro.com >.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scs2ascii (1),
.BR http://www.blarg.net/~mmadore/5250.html ,
.BR RFC1205 ,
.BR II10918 .
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B tn5250
is copyright
.if t \(co
1997, 1998, 1999 Michael Madore.  This manpage is copyright
.if t \(co
1999 Carey Evans.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.SH AUTHORS
.B tn5250
was written by Michael Madore
.RI < mmadore@blarg.net >,
Jay Felice
.RI < jasonf@nacs.net >
and others; see the AUTHORS file for details.
This manual page was written by Carey Evans
.RI < c.evans@clear.net.nz >.
